README.md, before:

# Evolution Solver Microservice

A standalone microservice for running evolutionary algorithms to generate innovative business solutions using OpenAI's o3 model.

## Production Status ✅

- **Parallel Enrichment**: Working - Each idea gets its own API call
- **o3 Model Integration**: Functional with structured output
- **Full Pipeline**: Variator → Enricher (parallel) → Ranker operational
- **Performance**: ~12-15 seconds per idea enrichment with o3 model

**Repository**: https://github.com/yloewidt/evolution-solver-microservice

## Features

- Evolutionary algorithm implementation using OpenAI o3
- REST API for job submission and result retrieval
- Cloud Run deployment for scalable processing
- Firestore integration for result persistence
- Cloud Tasks for async job processing
- Configurable evolution parameters

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│   Client    │────▶│   REST API   │────▶│ Cloud Tasks │
└─────────────┘     └──────────────┘     └─────────────┘
                            │                     │
                            ▼                     ▼
                    ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
                    │  Firestore   │◀────│ Cloud Run   │
                    └──────────────┘     │   Worker    │
                                        └─────────────┘
```

## API Endpoints

### Submit Evolution Job
```
POST /api/evolution/jobs
{
  "problemContext": "string",
  "evolutionConfig": {
    "generations": 10,
    "populationSize": 5,
    "model": "o3",
    "maxCapex": 50,
    "minProfits": 10
  }
}
```

### Direct Job Processing (Bypasses Workflow)
```
POST /api/evolution/direct
{
  "problemContext": "string",
  "evolutionConfig": {
    "populationSize": 3,
    "model": "o3"
  }
}
```

### Get Job Status
```
GET /api/evolution/jobs/:jobId
```

### Get Results
```
GET /api/evolution/results/:jobId
```

### List Jobs
```
GET /api/evolution/jobs?status=completed&limit=50
```

## Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your credentials
```

3. Run locally:
```bash
npm start
```

## Docker

Build and run with Docker:
```bash
docker build -t evolution-solver .
docker run -p 8080:8080 --env-file .env evolution-solver
```

## Deployment

Deploy to Google Cloud Run:
```bash
./scripts/deploy.sh production
```

## Testing

Run tests:
```bash
npm test
```

## Configuration

Environment variables:
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` - OpenAI API key
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID` - Google Cloud project ID
- `FIRESTORE_DATABASE` - Firestore database ID
- `CLOUD_TASKS_QUEUE` - Cloud Tasks queue name
- `PORT` - Server port (default: 8080)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: add non-technical explanation to README
Added a "What Does This Do?" section that explains the service in
plain language for developers unfamiliar with evolutionary algorithms
or business strategy concepts. Uses the analogy of "natural selection
for business ideas" to make the concept more accessible.

README.md, after:

# Evolution Solver Microservice

A standalone microservice for running evolutionary algorithms to generate innovative business solutions using OpenAI's o3 model.

## What Does This Do?

This service acts like a creative business consultant that generates and evolves innovative business ideas. Give it a business problem (like "how to reduce food waste in restaurants"), and it will:

1. **Generate** multiple creative business solutions (like partnerships, new revenue models, or innovative services)
2. **Enrich** each idea with detailed business analysis including financial projections, implementation steps, and risk assessment
3. **Rank** all ideas based on their potential return on investment, feasibility, and capital requirements
4. **Evolve** the best ideas over multiple generations, combining successful elements to create even better solutions

Think of it as "natural selection for business ideas" - the service starts with random creative solutions, evaluates their potential, and then creates new generations by combining the best traits of successful ideas. After several generations, you get highly optimized, practical business solutions tailored to your specific problem.

## Production Status ✅

- **Parallel Enrichment**: Working - Each idea gets its own API call
- **o3 Model Integration**: Functional with structured output
- **Full Pipeline**: Variator → Enricher (parallel) → Ranker operational
- **Performance**: ~12-15 seconds per idea enrichment with o3 model

**Repository**: https://github.com/yloewidt/evolution-solver-microservice

## Features

- Evolutionary algorithm implementation using OpenAI o3
- REST API for job submission and result retrieval
- Cloud Run deployment for scalable processing
- Firestore integration for result persistence
- Cloud Tasks for async job processing
- Configurable evolution parameters

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│   Client    │────▶│   REST API   │────▶│ Cloud Tasks │
└─────────────┘     └──────────────┘     └─────────────┘
                            │                     │
                            ▼                     ▼
                    ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
                    │  Firestore   │◀────│ Cloud Run   │
                    └──────────────┘     │   Worker    │
                                        └─────────────┘
```

## API Endpoints

### Submit Evolution Job
```
POST /api/evolution/jobs
{
  "problemContext": "string",
  "evolutionConfig": {
    "generations": 10,
    "populationSize": 5,
    "model": "o3",
    "maxCapex": 50,
    "minProfits": 10
  }
}
```

### Direct Job Processing (Bypasses Workflow)
```
POST /api/evolution/direct
{
  "problemContext": "string",
  "evolutionConfig": {
    "populationSize": 3,
    "model": "o3"
  }
}
```

### Get Job Status
```
GET /api/evolution/jobs/:jobId
```

### Get Results
```
GET /api/evolution/results/:jobId
```

### List Jobs
```
GET /api/evolution/jobs?status=completed&limit=50
```

## Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your credentials
```

3. Run locally:
```bash
npm start
```

## Docker

Build and run with Docker:
```bash
docker build -t evolution-solver .
docker run -p 8080:8080 --env-file .env evolution-solver
```

## Deployment

Deploy to Google Cloud Run:
```bash
./scripts/deploy.sh production
```

## Testing

Run tests:
```bash
npm test
```

## Configuration

Environment variables:
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` - OpenAI API key
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID` - Google Cloud project ID
- `FIRESTORE_DATABASE` - Firestore database ID
- `CLOUD_TASKS_QUEUE` - Cloud Tasks queue name
- `PORT` - Server port (default: 8080)

## License

MIT
